All right, so let's talk about path.
I actually got a question about
this earlier in the class.
So this is actually what I'll talk about
so that you have a thing called your path.
So if you say echo $PATH right now,
you can see that you get this really
long string of like paths, right,
various different paths,
like locations on your computer.
This is where all of your programs are.
So you can see here,
if I say ls usr/local/sbin,
actually it doesn't
have anything in there.
I know usr/local/games has
logcat in it right, or
it should, looks like it doesn't.
All right, how about snap/bin?
Some of these are open.
So you can see here this has all my
various different snap binaries and
this is how Bash figures out
where all of your programs are.
So it goes from left to right.
So it's going to first check
if I say run node, right?
So if I say here, run node,
it's going to check is there a node here?
No.
Here, here, here, until eventually it
gets to the snap, then I was like cool.
I found something called node,
I can invoke it from here.
So notice what I'm running gen_files or
node_test, right, I have to say
.slash to let Bash knows I'm not reaching
for something that's in my path.
I'm actually wanting to run something
that's in this directory and
it's called node_test.
That's what the .slash means.
But what happens if I wanted to run
something like gen_files like this, right?
Without any sort of prefix to run it as
if it was like a system wide command.
Well, let's make our own
directory called my_bin.
And I'm gonna move,
we'll move node_test into my_bin.
And we'll move gen_files
into my_bin as well.
So if I look in my_bin, you should see
I have gen_files and node_test and
now we just have to put that on our path.
So the way that we would do that is
we're going to vi into our bash RC.
And just down here at the end,
I'm going to add another line under our
another variable and I'm gonna say export
PATH =, you need a full path there,
so I'm gonna put the tilda and
then under my_bin like this, and
then I'm going to put colon, the colon
is what separates all the various
different things on the path and
then I'm gonna put PATH there.
Okay, so I have my_bin on there and
then it's going to reattach like
the rest of the path on it.
So I'm not overriding the path.
If I didn't put this :$PATH on there,
it would overwrite everything that's in
the path, and all I'm trying to do is add
something on the beginning of it, right?
So now if I write, oops,
write quit, actually,
just a funny side note about VI again
because I love making jokes about VI.
If you search for :wq inside of files,
it's a bunch of people that have been
meaning to write quit out of them, but
didn't word in the proper mode,
and it's just all over GitHub.
It's hilarious, anyway.
So if I echo my path again,
you can see here that my_bin is on there.
And if I look inside of my_bin, right,
you can see that I got gen_files and
node_test in there.
So now, hopefully I should be able
to just say node_test, like that.
And there you go.
Now that that's on my path it's like,
I can see that and I can run it.
Or if I say gen_files, just like that,
it runs my program that I put in there.
So this is a really useful thing for you
to know how to do, because you can create
a bunch of your own personal Bash scripts
that you can use whenever you want.
And then you can put them on your path and
you can run them as if they were just
normal commands for your computer.
So I mean, it'll even autocomplete, right?
So I put gen_ and if I hit tab,
files will show up So
that is how you use Shibang and
that's how you put things
onto your path as well.
One thing I was going to throw
in here which is useful for
you, if I go back into something
like my_bin, gen_files, right?
A lot of times it's useful
to put comments and things,
like we're supposed to comment our code,
you can do that with Bash scripts as well,
if you just put a hash, right?
So this is a comment.
In fact,
technically this first thing up here,
the reason why it doesn't get run is
it's technically a comment, right?
It's just a special comment.
But you'll see all over my notes I have,
you can put comments at the ends here.
I can say, this is an echo, right.
So that's how you do comments right?
So this will still get run because on the
left side of the hash but everything after
here, this is just a comment,
you can put whatever you want there.
Cool.
All right, so
let's talk about variables and
how to do variables
inside of Bash scripts.
So let's go back into gen_files.
Okay, and we're using this
path in multiple places, so
it'd be cool if that was a variable, and
then we could set that variable, right?
So let's go do that.
We're gonna say, DESTINATION= our
path that we're using there.
You can put quotes here as well,
that's optional,
because there's no spaces
here you don't have to.
So up to you if you
want to put that there.
And then here we can just refer to
this as DESTINATION, like this.
Same here DESTINATION.
Okay?
So this should feel
relatively familiar for
you because this looks like what we
were doing with environmental variables.
And that's because it's
literally the same process,
the same thing that's been doing that.
So it works just as well.
Let's say we wanted to put file
here into its own variables, so
we can have a file prefix.
So let's do that,
we're going to say FILE_PREFIX= file.
By the way, these don't necessarily
have to be screaming cases,
as people often call that.
It just frequently is for Bash.
I don't know if there's even
necessarily a good reason for that.
I just always see it that way,
so I always just do.
But you could absolutely
make it lowercase.
And I'll see, inside of Bash scripts,
I will see people use Pascal case or,
I don't see as much camel casing,
but I will see people do
file prefix like this,
up to you, whatever you decide.
But I always see environmental variables
written as screaming case always.
Okay, so this one's a little bit weirder.
We can't just say $FILE_PREFIX like this,
because then it makes it ambiguous
is what this curly brace refers to,
because that could be
accessing an array as well.
So we have to put curly
braces around this as well.
So anywhere that you do
destination right here,
I could technically put curly
braces on this as well.
They're just unnecessary so
people don't always put them there.
But down here I'm doing the touch
command that's actually necessary, so
I have to put those curly braces on.
So just be aware of that.
And now this should work exactly
the same way as it did before.
So if I write quit and run gen_files,
everything still works the way
that we anticipated it.
And something to keep in mind is,
notice that we're using curly braces here.
So curly brace is important
because that means get a variable,
if I put parentheses around it,
you remember that's running a sub command.
And it's yet
different if you use square brackets.
I know it's confusing but just keep in
mind that curly braces with the dollar
sign that's going to be
accessing a variable.